
http://www.reshafim.org.il/ad/egypt/negative_confessions/index.html#rem1

c.1240 BCE
 

 Hail, Usekh-nemmt, who comest forth from Anu, I have not committed sin. 
 Hail, Hept-khet, who comest forth from Kher-aha, I have not committed robbery with violence. 
 Hail, Fenti, who comest forth from Khemenu, I have not stolen. 
 Hail, Am-khaibit, who comest forth from Qernet, I have not slain men and women. 
 Hail, Neha-her, who comest forth from Rasta, I have not stolen grain. 
 Hail, Ruruti, who comest forth from heaven, I have not purloined offerings. 
 Hail, Arfi-em-khet, who comest forth from Suat, I have not stolen the property of God. 
 Hail, Neba, who comest and goest, I have not uttered lies. 
 Hail, Set-qesu, who comest forth from Hensu, I have not carried away food. 
 Hail, Utu-nesert, who comest forth from Het-ka-Ptah, I have not uttered curses. 
 Hail, Qerrti, who comest forth from Amentet, I have not committed adultery, I have not lain with men. 
 Hail, Her-f-ha-f, who comest forth from thy cavern, I have made none to weep. 
 Hail, Basti, who comest forth from Bast, I have not eaten the heart. 
 Hail, Ta-retiu, who comest forth from the night, I have not attacked any man. 
 Hail, Unem-snef, who comest forth from the execution chamber, I am not a man of deceit. 
 Hail, Unem-besek, who comest forth from Mabit, I have not stolen cultivated land. 
 Hail, Neb-Maat, who comest forth from Maati, I have not been an eavesdropper. 
 Hail, Tenemiu, who comest forth from Bast, I have not slandered [no man]. 
 Hail, Sertiu, who comest forth from Anu, I have not been angry without just cause. 
 Hail, Tutu, who comest forth from Ati, I have not debauched the wife of any man. 
 Hail, Uamenti, who comest forth from the Khebt chamber, I have not debauched the wife of [any] man. 
 Hail, Maa-antuf, who comest forth from Per-Menu, I have not polluted myself. 
 Hail, Her-uru, who comest forth from Nehatu, I have terrorized none. 
 Hail, Khemiu, who comest forth from Kaui, I have not transgressed [the law]. 
 Hail, Shet-kheru, who comest forth from Urit, I have not been wroth. 
 Hail, Nekhenu, who comest forth from Heqat, I have not shut my ears to the words of truth. 
 Hail, Kenemti, who comest forth from Kenmet, I have not blasphemed. 
 Hail, An-hetep-f, who comest forth from Sau, I am not a man of violence. 
 Hail, Sera-kheru, who comest forth from Unaset, I have not been a stirrer up of strife. 
 Hail, Neb-heru, who comest forth from Netchfet, I have not acted with undue haste. 
 Hail, Sekhriu, who comest forth from Uten, I have not pried into matters. 
 Hail, Neb-abui, who comest forth from Sauti, I have not multiplied my words in speaking. 
 Hail, Nefer-Tem, who comest forth from Het-ka-Ptah, I have wronged none, I have done no evil. 
 Hail, Tem-Sepu, who comest forth from Tetu, I have not worked witchcraft against the king. 
 Hail, Ari-em-ab-f, who comest forth from Tebu, I have never stopped [the flow of] water. 
 Hail, Ahi, who comest forth from Nu, I have never raised my voice. 
 Hail, Uatch-rekhit, who comest forth from Sau, I have not cursed God. 
 Hail, Neheb-ka, who comest forth from thy cavern, I have not acted with arrogance. 
 Hail, Neheb-nefert, who comest forth from thy cavern, I have not stolen the bread of the gods. 
 Hail, Tcheser-tep, who comest forth from the shrine, I have not carried away the khenfu cakes from the Spirits of the dead. 
 Hail, An-af, who comest forth from Maati, I have not snatched away the bread of the child, nor treated with contempt the god of my city. 
 Hail, Hetch-abhu, who comest forth from Ta-she, I have not slain the cattle belonging to the god.
 From the Papyrus of Nu

 From the Book of the Dead
 Translated by E.A. Wallis Budge
 Brit. Mus. No. 10477, Sheet 22
 [THE FOLLOWING] WORDS SHALL BE SAID BY THE STEWARD OF THE KEEPER OF THE SEAL, NU, WHOSE WORD IS TRUTH, WHEN HE COMETH FORTH TO THE HALL OF MAATI, SO THAT HE MAY BE SEPARATED FROM EVERY SIN WHICH HE HATH COMMITTED, AND MAY BEHOLD THE FACES OF THE GODS.

 The Osiris Nu, whose word is truth, saith: Homage to thee, O great God, Lord of Maati! I have come unto thee, O my Lord, and I have brought myself hither that I may behold thy beauties. I know thee, I know thy name, I know the names of the Forty-two Gods who live with thee in this Hall of Maati, who live by keeping ward over sinners, and who feed upon their blood on the day when the consciences of men are reckoned up in the presence of the god Un-Nefer. In truth thy name is Rehti-Merti-Nebti-Maati. In truth I have come unto thee, I have brought Maati (Truth) to thee. I have done away sin for thee.
 I have not committed sins against men.
 I have not opposed my family and kinsfolk. 
 I have not acted fraudulently in the Seat of Truth. 
 I have not known men who were of no account. 
 I have not wrought evil. 
 I have not made it to be the first [consideration daily that unnecessary] work should be done for me. 
 I have not brought forward my name for dignities. 
 I have not [attempted] to direct servants. [1] 
 [I have not belittled God]. 
 I have not defrauded the humble man of his property. 
 I have not done what the gods abominate. 
 I have not vilified a slave to his master. 
 I have not inflicted pain. 
 I have not caused anyone to go hungry. 
 I have not made any man to weep. 
 I have not committed murder. 
 I have not given the order for murder to be committed. 
 I have not caused calamities to befall men and women. 
 I have not plundered the offerings in the temples. 
 I have not defrauded the gods of their cake-offerings. 
 I have not carried off the fenkhu cakes [offered to] the Spirits. 
 I have not committed fornication. 
 I have not masturbated [in the sanctuaries of the god of my city]. 
 I have not diminished from the bushel. 
 I have not filched [land from my neighbour's estate and] added it to my own acre. 
 I have not encroached upon the fields [of others]. 
 I have not added to the weights of the scales. 
 I have not depressed the pointer of the balance. 
 I have not carried away the milk from the mouths of children. 
 I have not driven the cattle away from their pastures. 
 I have not snared the geese in the goose-pens of the gods. 
 I have not caught fish with bait made of the bodies of the same kind of fish. 
 I have not stopped water when it should flow. 
 I have not made a cutting in a canal of running water. 
 I have not extinguished a fire when it should burn. 
 I have not violated the times [of offering] the chosen meat offerings. 
 I have not driven away the cattle on the estates of the gods. 
 I have not turned back the god at his appearances. 
 I am pure. I am pure. I am pure. My pure offerings are the pure offerings of that great Benu which dwelleth in Hensu. For behold, I am the nose of Neb-nefu (the lord of the air), who giveth sustenance unto all mankind, on the day of the filling of the Utchat in Anu, in the second month of the season Pert, on the last of the month, [in the presence of the Lord of this earth]. I have seen the filling of the Utchat in Anu, therefore let not calamity befall me in this land, or in this Hall of Maati, because I know the names of the gods who are therein, [and who are the followers of the Great God].




I have not committed sin.
I have not committed robbery with violence.
I have not stolen.
I have not slain men and women.
I have not stolen grain.
I have not purloined offerings.
I have not stolen the property of the god.
I have not uttered lies.
I have not carried away food.
I have not uttered curses.
I have not committed adultery, I have not lain with men.
I have made none to weep.
I have not eaten the heart [i.e I have not grieved uselessly, or felt remorse].
I have not attacked any man.
I am not a man of deceit.
I have not stolen cultivated land.
I have not been an eavesdropper.
I have slandered [no man].
I have not been angry without just cause.
I have not debauched the wife of any man.
I have not debauched the wife of [any] man. (repeats the previous affirmation but addressed to a different god).
I have not polluted myself.
I have terrorised none.
I have not transgressed [the Law].
I have not been wroth.
I have not shut my ears to the words of truth.
I have not blasphemed.
I am not a man of violence.
I am not a stirrer up of strife (or a disturber of the peace).
I have not acted (or judged) with undue haste.
I have not pried into matters.
I have not multiplied my words in speaking.
I have wronged none, I have done no evil.
I have not worked witchcraft against the King (or blasphemed against the King).
I have never stopped [the flow of] water.
I have never raised my voice (spoken arrogantly, or in anger).
I have not cursed (or blasphemed) God.
I have not acted with evil rage.
I have not stolen the bread of the gods.
I have not carried away the khenfu cakes from the Spirits of the dead.
I have not snatched away the bread of the child, nor treated with contempt the god of my city.
I have not slain the cattle belonging to the god.[25]
